Let's go back to our example of our game where we have a user log in and they have to provide their
age.
Remember if I click run it's going to ask me Hey what's your age.
And if I give it something that doesn't like it's going to keep asking me until I provide a proper value.
There's one other piece to try except block that we haven't covered.
So we know that we have try we have except and then we have else.
But there's also another thing called finally and finally runs at the end after everything has been
executed.
Let me show you.
If I do print I'll say OK I'm finally done.
Let's see what happens if I click run here and I give it a proper age I get thank you because my try
Bork succeeded.
Nothing has failed.
I go to the else and I say thank you and now I break out of the while loop but finally says hey no matter
what at the end of it all I want you to finally do something let's see this in action if I do something
like zero I get please enter H higher than zero.
But then also still get.
OK I'm finally done.
What if I enter a gibberish I get hey please enter a number but also ok I'm finally done.
So finally runs regardless at the end of everything.
Why is this useful.
Maybe you're working on a game server and you want to make sure that you log out any activity on the
server.
So let's say a user tries to log in even if they try to enter the wrong information.
We want to log that activity so that maybe we can detect that there's people trying to break our program
or just to have our records that hey this user has tried to log in 10 times so finally is very useful.
Now let me ask you a question.
What happens if I do something like this.
Let's say I have here.
Continue and maybe another break statement here and then maybe inside of here I'm also going to have
a print.
Can you hear me.
What happens if I do something like this pause the video if you need to.
Otherwise I'm going to hit run and see what's going to happen.
What is going to happen if I enter 0
I get please enter higher than 0 because I get a zero division error a catches here and then we break
out of the loop the finally gets run but print never runs because well we break out of the loop and
remember this is surrounded by the loop.
Let me remove this so we can see it better OK.
What happens if I do something like this.
What if we run the program again and this time give it gibberish
I get please entry no OK I'm finally done.
And then what's your age.
So what happened here.
Well we tried this.
We got an error a value error it says hey please enter a number.
And then it's going to continue.
Now continue.
Instead of break doesn't break out of the loop out of the while loop instead it comes back to the top.
So it's going to try again this part.
What's your age.
OK.
So what if we finally try to log in properly and give it hey we're a team.
What happens that.
There you go.
I get thank you because we've tried it everything works so no exception.
So we are gonna get.
Thank you.
And then we break out of the loop.
So once again this print never gets printed.
Can you hear me.
But then finally.
OK.
Finally is done.
If we didn't have this break statement here and I click Run and give it 18.
Oh boy finally I can hear you this print finally gets printed because we don't break out of here.
We don't break out of here and then we run this line hopefully that makes sense.
That was a bit of a trick question.
But you're starting to get the hang of it.
I'll see you in the next video by.